These are generic installation instuctions.  Gale has been tested on
workstations running Mac OS X, Windows XP SP2, Debian Lenny and
Squeeze, and Ubuntu Hardy Heron.  There are platform specific
instructions for some of these platforms (e.g. INSTALL.MACOSX for
Mac).


Dependencies
------------

In order to install Gale, you must have the headers and development
libraries for

        - MPI
        - PETSc 3.0.0
        - libxml2

You must also have python 2.2.1 or greater installed.  If you do not
already have MPI, then in many cases PETSc can install a version for
you.  Installing PETSc also requires a Blas/Lapack implementation.

Generally, the most difficult part is installing PETSc.

Configure
---------

The first step in installing Gale is running the script
"configure.sh".  This script examines your system, looking for
dependencies.  If you are lucky, configure.sh will be able to find
everything.  But many times, you will have to tell "configure.sh"
where different packages are.  For example, suppose you installed
PETSc in /opt/goodies/petsc.  Then you can tell "configure.sh" where
PETSc is with the --petsc-dir option

  ./configure.sh --petsc-dir=/opt/goodies/petsc

PETSc has a mechanism for letting multiple installations of PETSc
coexist in a single directory (PETSC_ARCH).  If you have multiple
installations, Gale will use the first one it finds. To override that
guess, specify PETSC_ARCH with the option --petsc-arch

  ./configure.sh --petsc-dir=/opt/goodies/petsc --petsc-arch=linux-gnu

configure.sh also checks the environment variables PETSC_DIR and
PETSC_ARCH.

For the other dependencies, configure.sh accepts the options

  --libxml2-inc-dir
  --libxml2-lib-dir

  --mpi-dir
  --mpi-inc-dir
  --mpi-lib-dir

There are more options for advanced use.  To get a list of all
available options, invoke configure.sh with --help

  ./configure.sh --help

configure.sh saves a copy of everything it does in "config.log".
When sending in bug reports, always include a copy of "config.log".

After a successful configure, the results are written into
"config.cfg".  You can manually tune the parameters there, but it will
be overwritten if you run configure again.

Building
--------

Once you have configured successfully, run SCons

  ./scons

This will build all of the libraries and header files that are needed
for Gale.  If you want to run a parallel build because your machine
has two processors

  ./scons -j 2

The binary will be in

  build/bin/Gale

Testing
-------

There are a number of cookbook examples.  To run the yielding model type

  build/bin/Gale input/cookbook/yielding.xml

For some MPI implementations, you may have to speficy the complete
path to the input file

  bin/Gale /home/juser/gale/input/cookbook/yielding.xml

If you find any bugs, please send a meesage to

  cig-long@geodynamics.org
